[MUSIC]
So some of the advantages of using
an operating system on a Raspberry Pi like
you couldn't under Arduino.
We've been talking about those, and one of
the important advantages is the existence,
the fact that you can run multiple
processes at the same time.
What does that mean?
Say you had an Arduino and you write
a piece of code and you're running it
on there, that program is the only program
running on your Arduino at a given time.
Okay.
But with a Linux machine, and
a Rasberry Pi is essentially
a Linux machine, so running Linux.
The operating system allows you to run
multiple programs at the same time.
Now first, let me say that when I say
they're running at the same time,
they're not really running
at exactly the same time.
Basically, you've got one processor.
Let's assume one processor,
single core, okay?
You've got one processor and that
processor, say there are ten processes,
ten different programs
running at the same time.
They're not actually running at the same
time, they're swapping quickly, so
the operating system swaps them in an out.
But to the human, it swaps them so
fast that to the human it looks like
they're running at the same time.
Okay, so I can do 10, 20 processes running
at the same time, looking like they're
running at the same time, even though
they're swapping in and out fast.
And this can be very convenient
to be able to run multiple
processes at the same time.
What we see on the screen here,
you see a terminal window, so
this is a Linux, actually in my desktop,
so this isn't an actually, I didn't take
this screenshot of a Rasberry Pi, but
it looks actually, exactly the same.
And what I'm doing there is, I type the
command ps, which gives me a listing of
all the processes running on my
machine at the time when I did this.
And every row is a process, and
it has all it's information,
we'll go into more
detail about this later.
But the idea is that every
row is a particular process.
The right hand column
where it says command,
that's the name of the job,
the name of the task that's running.
Which we can't interpret those,
those are all processes that
are part of the operating system.
The idea though, is that many
processes can run at the same time.
So, why is it beneficial?
On one hand, you may say, look,
a human can only do one thing at a time.
So why do I need multiple things
running at the same time?
Well, it's nice to have multiple things
running at the same time because you can
have background processes that are
handling things that in the background for
you that are helpful.
So while you, the user are interacting,
maybe playing a video game or something
like that, in the background there
are processes doing other useful tasks.
Which we'll talk more about
this later when we get to
in more detail about
Linux in the next module.
But that's a helpful thing.
Now another thing that
operating systems give you
is the ability to use different
hardware devices easily.
Okay?
Now you don't need an operating system to
use different hardware devices.
Take an Arduino,
you can use different hardware devices by
buying an Arduino shield, stick it on top.
And then,
you call in library functions, right?
But in order to use a hardware device
in an Arduino, you have to write code.
You as a programmer have to write
a program that invokes certain library
functions and
uses the hardware device, okay?
So, you can do it, but
you have to write code to do it.
Where with an operating system,
you're allowed to use these
different hardware devices to plug in, and
you don't have to write code to do it.
That's really the difference.
You don't have to write code.
Now if you're comfortable writing code,
as I am, then I can write some code and
I don't need that.
But most users don't want to write code
for every little thing they want to do.
They want to just be able to plug
in a device, and use that device.
And so operating systems allow that, so
this picture here is trying
to give you a bit of an idea
about how an operating system,
let's say Linux, accomplishes that.
Specifically Linux, but
other operating system's are similar.
So, at the top you got a user application,
right up there.
So that user application,
just some program you wrote, or
some program you bought.
Maybe you bought some application and
you're running that, right?
So, that's the program.
Now, say that program wants
to use a hardware device.
And by hardware device, maybe I'm talking
about a webcam I plugged into USB, right?
So, that program wants to use that webcam.
So, what does it do?
What it does is it accesses a file.
Now that's the next level down.
See it says slash dev slash XXX,
that slash notation,
that's the directory notation.
Path notation, right?
So slash dev.
Dev is short for device.
If you look in a Linux box under slash
dev, you see a bunch of sub-directories,
a bunch of files and XXX is one them.
It's not one of them, but
xx is just a generic term for a file.
And you got a file in there for every
device that's connected to your machine.
So, if you've got a web
cam plugged into USB,
there will be some file in that slash dev
directory just devoted to that web cam.
Okay.
So that file is associated with
the hardware device that you plugged in.
Then, from the user point of view,
from the user application or user point of
view, all you need to, say you wanna read
data from the webcam, you read the file.
You read the file context.
You read data at the file content.
And that data would be the image data,
for instance, from the video And
if was another type of device, say it was
a disc drive or something like that or
whatever it was,
say you want to write to the disc drive.
Then, if you want to write to it,
you write to the file and
that will go into the drive, okay?
So what Linux and a lot of operating
systems do is they say look let's,
they give you this uniform
interface to all these devices.
They say look, all these devices, how you
access a disc drive, and a web cam, and
a microphone is all different But
a user doesn't want to see that,
that's way too complicated.
So they say look we're just going
to give you a set of files.
You write to the file and
read from the file and
that allows you to access
every device in the same way.
I want to read from a microphone I want
to see what the microphone is hearing.
I read from the appropriate file.
If I want to write to a drive I
write to the appropriate file.
So it gives you this nice easy interface.
To access all your hardware devices.
So, there's a file and
underneath that, or behind that,
inside the operating system, there's a
device driver which I've highlighted here.
And that's a bunch of code.
And what the device driver does is it
translates these file accesses into actual
hardware device accesses So that's
where the real rubber hits the road.
If you, say it's a disk drive.
You write to the disk drive by writing to
a file, so then the device driver has to
say, look, they wanna put this data into
this disk drive, I'm gonna have to spin
this disk drive and move the head this
way and write the data in this fashion.
The details,
the physical details Of how you actually
access the hardware components,
the microphone, disk drive,
whatever the hardware component is,
that is understood by the device driver.
The device driver handles
all those details for you.
So that's why if you ever take
let's say a windows machine and
you plug in new device, sometimes in
the lower right a little pop up will say
downloading device drivers,
searching for device driver and so on.
It's looking for
the appropriate device driver.
For that component, to know how to
access that particular component.
And once it finds that then it can use
that and it makes it very easy for
a user to access any hardware device
without having to write code
explicitly for that purpose.
So that's what a device driver is and
there are a set of them,
libraries of them.
And then underneath that
is the hardware device,
whatever the hardware device is, that is
controlled by the device driver code.
So this is another advantage
of having an operating system,
is you can have these device drives which
are part of the operating system, and
they deal with all the hardware
interface details for you.
All you have to do is access files and
it makes it a much easier,
more pleasant interface.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]